# Comp-Graphic

# How do I approach designing software?
For the project, I learned how to implement and use functions to design a unique 3D scene. These functions include setting transformations for objects that changed the scaling, rotation, and positioning, while also using functions to properly set textures, lighting, colors, and materials to create a nature scene that resembles views from documentaries. Functions that adjusted movement also allowed my scene to be viewed dynamically using input from a keyboard or mouse. The design process I followed for the project was building up concepts each week, testing each concept on separate files before adding everything together once I understood how the conepts can be combined to create an effective scene. This design process can be used for future work to support creating small programs in iterations where I start off testing the programs to make sure I understand what I am doing and the features in the program are behaving as expected, before putting each program together to form a polished product.

# How do I approach developing programs?
A  new development strategy I implemented for my 3D scene was progressively adding new features each week. I would start by using objects, combining them to form a complex object that represented an animal, a background, or a tree, then I would add extra controls to allow a viewer to move around my scene dynamically. With objects and controls set, I then added textures to bring my objects to life, and created lighting sources to represent natural lighting and demonstrate the difference between objects and their textures. I then put all that I had learned together to create a scene that represented an African safari type of environment. Iteration was big factor in the creation of my scene, especially when introducing new objects. For every new object in my scene, I started by using shapes to figure out how the object would look. I then changed the size and position of each shape to be aligned with each other, and once I figured out how to create an object the way I wanted to, I would adjust the rotation of the shapes, and apply either a texture or color. Once the object was created, I had to create a material that suited the lighting based on the position of the object and apply that material to the object similarly to applying a texture or color. Once I was satisfied with the object, I would then move on to another object starting the process over again using the same method. My approach to developing code was to add as much as possible without worrying about the length of code in a single method, but that evolved the more milestones I completed. With each milestone, I decided to create different functions for each object I created because the objects would use similar functions to create objects with diverse details. This approach allowed my code to be reusable since the functions would generate a unique object and it improved the organization of my code.

# How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?
Computer graphics and visualization allowed me to work with a familiar programming language in a different development environment. This allowed me to understand the different uses between development environments while being able to use a programming language that I had learned in previous classes, helping me become more exposed to different tools. Using this knowledge will help me in future courses that will require me to use different development environments to create a program. I also learned about the importance of modulizing and organizing my code throughout the project, which helped me quickly find parts in my code to adjust thanks to commenting and creating separate functions that will come in handy for bigger projects in the future. Computer graphics and visualization also gave me experience working with 3D scenes that have become an important tool for training, visualizing, connecting, and immersing users, therefore, the project I completed relates to projects in the professional field and I expect that I will work on similar projects very soon.
